.\" Copyright (C) 1999 Networks Associates Technology, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pgp.1
.\"
.TH pgpdoc1 1 "Sept 1999 " PGP "PGP"
.SH NAME
PGP \- Starts PGP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The PGP command starts PGP based on the specified options. For more complete information about the product, please see the documentation included with this product.
.SH 1. PGP OPTIONS
.IP Note that [brackets] denote an optional field; do not type the brackets.

.IP "pgp <ASCII-armored_message>"
Instructs PGP to decrypt an ASCII-armored message. PGP converts the message to binary (a ".pgp" ciphertext file), and then to plaintext.

.IP "pgp -o <new_plaintext_filename> [ciphertext_filename]"
Instructs PGP to decrypt an encrypted file, or to check the signature integrity of a signed file.

.IP "pgp <keyring_filename>"
Instructs PGP to display all the keys in a specific key ring filename. When you use this command, PGP lists all the keys in keyfile.pgp, and also attempts to add them to your key ring if they are not already on your key ring.

.IP "pgp -c <plaintext_filename>"
Instructs PGP to encrypt a plaintext file with conventional cryptography only.

.IP "pgp -e <plaintext_filename> <recipients_userid>"
Instructs PGP to encrypt a plaintext file with the recipient's public key. 

.IP "pgp -e <textfile_filename> <userid1> <userid2> <userid3>..."
Instructs PGP to encrypt a message for any number of recipients.

.IP "pgp -es <plaintext_filename> <recipients_userid> [-u your_userid]"
Instructs PGP to sign a plaintext file with your secret key, and then encrypt it with the recipients public key. 

.IP "pgp -esa <message.txt> <recipients_userid>"
Instructs PGP to produce a ciphertext file in ASCII-armored format. The generated file can be uploaded into a text editor through 7-bit channels for transmission as normal email.

.IP "pgp -feast <recipients_userid> <inputfile >outputfile"
Instructs PGP to use a Unix-style filter mode, reading from standard input and writing to standard output.

.IP "pgp -g"
Displays a quick command usage summary for group options.

.IP "pgp -ga"
Add items to a group

.IP "pgp -gr"
Remove items from a group.

.IP "pgp -gv"
View a group.

.IP "pgp -gvv"
View a group and the keys it contains. Default is view all groups and their constituent keys.

.IP "pgp -h"
Displays a quick command usage summary for PGP.

.IP "pgp -k"
Display help for key options.

.IP "pgp -ka <keyfile> [keyring]"
Instructs PGP to add a public or secret key file's contents to your public or secret key ring.

.IP "pgp -kc [userid] [keyring]" 
Instructs PGP to view the contents of your public key ring and check the certifying signatures.

.IP "pgp -kd <your_userid>"
Instructs PGP to permanently revoke your own key, issuing a key revocation certificate.

.IP "pgp -kd <userid>"
Instructs PGP to disable or reenable a public key on your own public key ring.

.IP "pgp -kds [keyring]"
Revoke signatures attached to keys on the keyring.

.IP "pgp -ke <userid> [keyring]"
Instructs PGP to edit the userid, passphrase, or trust parameters for a public key. Includes option to make an existing key your default signing key (answer Y to "Use this key as an ultimately-trusted introducer (y/N)?").

.IP "pgp -kg"
Instructs PGP to generate your own unique public/secret key pair.

.IP "pgp -kr <userid> [keyring]"
Instructs PGP to remove a key or a userid from your public key ring.

.IP "pgp -krs <userid> [keyring]"
Instructs PGP to remove selected signatures from a userid on a keyring.

.IP "pgp -ks <recipients_userid> [-u your_userid] [keyring]"
Instructs PGP to sign and certify someone else's public key on your public key ring.

.IP "pgp -kv[v] [userid] [keyring]" 
Instructs PGP to view the contents of your public key ring.

.IP "pgp -kvv [userid] [keyring]"
Instructs PGP to display all the certifying signatures attached to each key.

.IP "pgp -kvc [userid] [keyring]"
Instructs PGP to view the "fingerprint" of a public key, to help verify it over the telephone with the key's owner.

.IP "pgp -kx <userid> <keyfile> [keyring]"
or "pgp -kxa <userid> <keyfile> [keyring]"
Instructs PGP to copy a key from your public or secret key ring.

.IP "pgp -m <ciphertext_filename>"
Instructs PGP to view the decrypted plaintext output on your screen, without writing it to a file. Use the -m (more) option when decrypting.

.IP "pgp -p <ciphertext_filename>"
Instructs PGP to recover the original plaintext filename while decrypting.

.IP "pgp -s <plaintext_filename> [-u your_userid]"
Instructs PGP to sign a plaintext file with your secret key.

.IP "pgp -sea <plaintext_filename> <recipients_userid>"
or "pgp -kxa <userid> <keyfile> [keyring]"
Instructs PGP to produce a ciphertext file in ASCII-armored format. Add the -a option when encrypting or signing a message or extracting a key.

.IP "pgp -seat <message.txt> <recipients_userid>"
Instructs PGP to specify that a plaintext file contains ASCII text, not binary, and should be converted to the recipient's local text line conventions. Add the -t (text) option to other options.

.IP "pgp -sew <message.txt> <recipients_userid>"
Instructs PGP to wipe out the plaintext file after producing the ciphertext file. Add the -w (wipe) option when encrypting or signing a message.

.IP "pgp -sta <plaintext_filename> [-u your_userid]"
Instructs PGP to sign a plaintext ASCII text file with your secret key, producing a signed plaintext message suitable for email.

.IP "pgp -steam <message.txt> <recipients_userid>"
Instructs PGP to specify that the recipient's decrypted plaintext will be shown only on the recipient's screen and cannot be saved to disk. Add the -m (more) option when decrypting.

.IP "SET PGPPATH=<PGPpathname>"
Instructs PGP to look for the following PGP files in the named directory (for example, SET PGPPATH=C:\PGP): 
Keyring files,
randseed.bin
pgp.cfg, pgp.ini, or .pgprc
language.txt
These files can be kept in any directory by setting the environmental variable "PGPPATH" to the desired pathname.  

