ten22% serverudp2 14070
service name: domain, protocol: udp
port: 53, alias of service: domain

service name: ftp, protocol: tcp
port: 21, alias of service: ftp

service name: ftp, protocol: tcp
port: 21, alias of service: ftp

service name: telnet, protocol: tcp
port: 23, alias of service: telnet

service name: rpc, protocol: tcp
port: 530, alias of service: rpc

service name: ftp, protocol: tcp
port: 21, alias of service: ftp

service name: nicname, protocol: tcp
port: 43, alias of service: nicname

service name: ftp, protocol: tcp
port: 21, alias of service: ftp

service name: kdc, protocol: tcp
port: 750, alias of service: kdc

service name: telnet, protocol: p
service not found or error telnet
port: -1, alias of service: telnet

service name: ftp, protocol: tcp
port: 21, alias of service: ftp

service name: smtp, protocol: tcp
port: 25, alias of service: smtp

service name: router, protocol: tcp
service not found or error router
port: -1, alias of service: router

service name: echo, protocol: tcp
port: 7, alias of service: echo

service name: link, protocol: tcp
port: 87, alias of service: link

service name: finger, protocol: tcp
port: 79, alias of service: finger

service name: fs, protocol: tcp
port: 7100, alias of service: fs

service name: telnet, protocol: tcp
port: 23, alias of service: telnet